Alright in the next few videos we are
going to look at working with the ingredients. So
we have the recipe and then the
ingredients and then unit of measure. So
we have listed properties to deal
with here and what we want to do is I
want to show you the nuances of working
with more complex data models here. So
there are some nuances. I actually almost
did this as an assignment to do all the
CRUD operations for ingredients but there's
enough nuances to learn along the way. I
decided to not do that and take you
through it step by step and working with
this more complex object model. So we got
a lot to learn. Actually we're going to
write a lot of code in this and in this
video specifically, we're going to create
a new screen to just show a list of
ingredients against the recipe. So we'll
have a recipe, we will be able to go into the
recipes and then display a list of
ingredients and from that we're going to
build CRUD operations on the ingredients.
So we'll be working with in the specific
recipe. So there are some nuances that we
need to do as far as setting up the URLs
and what not and how we are working with
not only Spring MVC but Spring Data and the
JPA data model. So I'm going to get
going out in this video here and show
you how we implement displaying a list
of ingredients for a specific recipe. Alrighty, in this video we want to take a
look at adding a new recipe and we're
going to set that up. It's actually going
to be a little bit easier than what we
did last time. A lot of the groundworks
already been laid from doing the update
because we already have the save method.
That's going to be a save or it
actually functions as a merge. So it will
save it whether its brand new or coming
in new. So as usual I've started off with
a unit test. I have that on the screen
now and that is line 79. We're going to
test the new ingredient form and we
basically just need to make sure that
form displays properly. The save method
is going to be pretty much the same
thing. It's going to take in that command
object to the same URL so there's
nothing really to test on the controller.
I'm going to go ahead and run this now.
Make sure that our test is in fact valid. It's going to run real quick and we'll
jump over and take a look at the
controller. So that is
running. I will show you the controller
code and here's the cadet up towards the
top there. On line 52 we are mapping it to
get, RequestMapping  will take the recipe
ID out of the URL and pass it in as a
path variable using the Path
Variable annotation. Therefore, recipeId
and in this case we are going to create
a new RecipeCommand by going out and
finding the recipe value. And actually we
do not actually need that. I'm sorry we
are going to use that, I apologize.
So we want to use the RecipeCommand and
here, we still haven't done anything
happy path. So if we get a bad recipe
value we're going to want to do
something different there. We'll want to
throw up a exception so I'm going to add
a note in there. So here, we're going to
raise an exception if it's null so if we
don't get back to RecipeCommand, that
tells us that ID value is incorrect. But
now we're going to go ahead and return
back the command object and we will add
in an attribute for the IngredientCommand. And just like we did prior there
in line 65 we need to go ahead and
initialize the uom. So we're going to
do a uomList for our drop-down so that
form is going to function the same. Now I
did in testing this, I ran into some
problems and I'm changing out the
project Lombok stuff from data
to getter and setters. So should be able
to say that I was using data there. We're
going to change that out. That
automatically gives us an equals and a
toString values and I don't think
project Lombok was misbehaving but I
did run into some problems where it
caused some weird behavior. So I'm
migrating our data model over to using
getters and setters only and not using
the project Lombok provided equals
hashCode and toString. And like I
said, that caused some odd problems
when I was troubleshooting the setup. And I figured you guys will probably see it too
if I if I saw it. Now the next thing we want to do is take
a look at the service implementation and
this is pretty close. We did the
save and now I did have to tweak the sum
to save the new ingredient here on line
89 at making the relationship both ways. That was part of the troubleshooting. It
did when it ran into the errors of
project Lombok and then next, here on 96.
We were doing a save and you can see on
97 I was doing a find and verifying the ID.
That works great if it is a already persisted
identity but on a brand-new ingredient,
guess what? We don't have an ID value. So
now I am coming back and saying is it
present on line 182. There's probably a
hole we could poke in it but we are
going to take our best guess and they're
going to do a stream and we will filter
that by matching on description, matching
on a mount and matching on the uom id and
then we'll find the first one that comes
back out of our ingredients. Now keep in
mind we did not specify any of those as
unique. So we could add in duplicate
ingredients that way. That's something we
could address but that's just where our
data model is and that's why I said
we're not totally safe there. We were just
taking a best-guess to get back a valid
ID, a valid ingredient to return. And then
finally on line 111 we convert that back
to an ingredient object and return it to
the client. And of course we did write
our unit test for that. We'll take a
quick look at that. In my mistake I
actually did not write a unit test. So
ideally in a perfect world we would want
to be testing both of these scenarios.
Right now that would be considered a
gap on our unit test coverage. So maybe
I'll add that in before I check this in if
I'm feeling really motivated or maybe
I'll leave that for somebody out there
to do and maybe I'll even take a pull
request on that to bring into the source
code repository. So let's go ahead and
run this right now. So I'm going to come
up here and show you the functionality.
That will start it up in Spring Boot and Spring Boot is up and running. Let's come
over here and I'm just going to come
right to that. See where I was testing it
prior. So let's go into perfect guacamole. We can view that. I can view the
ingredients and now I added in a button
here for new. We might want to tweak that,
add in more accessibility for the users
but if this was a UI UX class. This is
good enough for our purposes right now
so I can say new, new ingredient, come in
here. Give it an amount of 12 and let's
call this cups. Now that seems a little
excessive. We'll say teaspoons. Submit that and boom.
Internal error. Let's take a quick look
at this. No value present. So we fell
through to this and we did not get a hit
on that. Let's back up, take a quick look at
this. So that should have worked. Now I'll show
you some troubleshooting here. So I have
maybe that one little tweak there
before I recorded it and let's go
ahead and I should see it restart here. You
can see that Spring Boot did not
restart, we'll double check that. Same
situation. Sometimes it doesn't
restart properly. Now we can see that
I've manually kicked off the build and
that did kick off the reload of Spring
Boot through the Spring developer tools.
Now let's take a look at this and let's
say something new, one teaspoon. So now we
can see I got an ID of 28 and that's
actually ingredients.
And there's a ID 28 which we saw get
added on the previous screen, so I can
actually come in and update this. So we can
see that has been updated. Something
new 22, refresh that and see
something new 22 there. Alright, so
that is now adding a new ingredient. So
we're able to do mostly operations. The
only thing that's left is deleting the
ingredient which is actually fairly
simple and we will get to that in the
next video.